<HTML xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en" dir="ltr">
<style type="text/css">
A:before { content:' '; } 
A:after { content:' '; } 
SPAN:before { content:' '; } 
SPAN:after { content:' '; } 
</style>
<BODY class="mediawiki  ltr ns-0 ns-subject page-Team_Newcastle_Meetings_23_July_2009"><DIV id="globalWrapper"><DIV id="top-section"><DIV id="p-logo"><A href="/Main_Page" title="Main Page">&quot;
	    </A></DIV><DIV id="menubar" class="left-menu"><UL><LI class="selected"><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Meetings/23_July_2009">Page               </A></LI><LI class="new"><A href="/wiki/index.php?title=Talk:Team:Newcastle/Meetings/23_July_2009&amp;action=edit&amp;redlink=1">Discussion               </A></LI><LI><A href="/wiki/index.php?title=Team:Newcastle/Meetings/23_July_2009&amp;action=edit">View source               </A></LI><LI><A href="/wiki/index.php?title=Team:Newcastle/Meetings/23_July_2009&amp;action=history">History               </A></LI><LI style="color:#808080;cursor:default">teams</LI></UL></DIV><DIV class="right-menu" id="menubar"><UL><LI id="pt-login"><A href="/wiki/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&amp;returnto=Team:Newcastle/Meetings/23_July_2009" title="You are encouraged to log in; however, it is not mandatory [o]" accesskey="o">Log in</A></LI></UL></DIV><DIV id="search-controls"><FORM action="/Special:Search" id="searchform">Â </FORM></DIV></DIV><DIV id="content"><H1 class="firstHeading">Team:Newcastle/Meetings/23 July 2009</H1><DIV id="bodyContent"><H3 id="siteSub">From 2009.igem.org</H3><DIV id="maincontent" class="blog_home"><DIV class="lower_bg"><DIV id="menu" style="padding: 0 !important;"><UL id="menuitems"><LI id="home"><A href="https://2009.igem.org/Team:Newcastle">Home</A></LI><LI id="Modeling"><A href="https://2009.igem.org/Team:Newcastle/Team">Team</A></LI><LI id="Li2"><A href="https://2009.igem.org/Team:Newcastle/Project">Project</A></LI><LI id="Li3"><A href="https://2009.igem.org/Team:Newcastle/Parts">Parts</A></LI><LI id="Li1"><A href="https://2009.igem.org/Team:Newcastle/Modelling">Modelling</A></LI><LI id="Li5"><A href="https://2009.igem.org/Team:Newcastle/Sponsors">Sponsors</A></LI><LI id="Li4" class="last"><A href="https://2009.igem.org/Team:Newcastle/Notebook">Lab Book</A></LI></UL></DIV><DIV id="leftnavigation"><P class="header"><STRONG>Project</STRONG></P><UL class="navigationsection5"><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Project" title="Team:Newcastle/Project"> Overview</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Choices" title="Team:Newcastle/Choices">Choices Rationale</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Characterisation" title="Team:Newcastle/Characterisation">Characterisation</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Safety" title="Team:Newcastle/Safety">Safety</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Judging_Comments" title="Team:Newcastle/Judging Comments">Judging Comments</A></LI></UL><P class="header"><STRONG>Sub-projects</STRONG></P><UL class="navigationsection5"><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Metalintakeefflux" title="Team:Newcastle/Metalintakeefflux">Metal Intake/Efflux</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Metalsensing" title="Team:Newcastle/Metalsensing">Metal Sensing</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/SporulationTuning" title="Team:Newcastle/SporulationTuning"> Sporulation Tuning</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/PopulationDynamics" title="Team:Newcastle/PopulationDynamics"> Population Dynamics</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Stochasticity" title="Team:Newcastle/Stochasticity">Stochastic Switch</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Metals" title="Team:Newcastle/Metals">Metal Sequester</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Chassis" title="Team:Newcastle/Chassis">Chassis</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Promoter_Library" title="Team:Newcastle/Promoter Library"> Promoter Library</A></LI></UL><P class="header"><STRONG>Wet Lab</STRONG></P><UL class="navigationsection5"><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Project/Labwork" title="Team:Newcastle/Project/Labwork"> Lab Book</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Project/Labwork/Protocols" title="Team:Newcastle/Project/Labwork/Protocols"> Protocols</A></LI></UL><P class="header"><STRONG>Meetings</STRONG></P><UL class="navigationsection5"><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Meetings" title="Team:Newcastle/Meetings"> Meetings Calendar</A></LI></UL><P class="header"><STRONG>Planning</STRONG></P><UL class="navigationsection5"><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Timetable" title="Team:Newcastle/Timetable">Timeline</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Ideas" title="Team:Newcastle/Ideas">Ideas</A></LI></UL><P class="header"><STRONG>Links</STRONG></P><UL class="navigationsection5"><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Helping_other_teams" title="Team:Newcastle/Helping other teams"> Helping other teams</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Ethics" title="Team:Newcastle/Ethics"> Ethics</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/TShirts" title="Team:Newcastle/TShirts"> T-Shirts</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Edinburgh_trip" title="Team:Newcastle/Edinburgh trip"> iGEM Meetup</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Team/NewcastleCity" title="Team:Newcastle/Team/NewcastleCity"> Our City</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Games" title="Team:Newcastle/Games"> Fun and Games</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Sponsors" title="Team:Newcastle/Sponsors"> Sponsors</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Links" title="Team:Newcastle/Links"> Useful Links</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Contact" title="Team:Newcastle/Contact"> Contact Us</A></LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Press" title="Team:Newcastle/Press"> Press Coverage</A></LI></UL></DIV><DIV id="centercontent"><TABLE id="toc" class="toc"><TBODY><TR><TD><DIV id="toctitle"><H2>Contents</H2></DIV><UL><LI class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><A href="#23_July_2009_-_iGEM_Meeting"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">23 July 2009 - iGEM Meeting</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><A href="#Agenda"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.1</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Agenda</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><A href="#Action_Points_during_09_July_09_Meeting"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.2</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Action Points during 09 July 09 Meeting</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><A href="#New_Action_Points_from_Last_Meeting_.2809_July_09.29_and_Student_Meeting_.2813_July_09.29"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.3</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">New Action Points from Last Meeting (09 July 09) and Student Meeting (13 July 09)</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-3 tocsection-5"><A href="#Modelling"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.3.1</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Modelling</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-3 tocsection-6"><A href="#Wiki"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.3.2</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Wiki</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-3 tocsection-7"><A href="#Misc."><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.3.3</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Misc.</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-3 tocsection-8"><A href="#Notes"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.3.4</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Notes</SPAN></A></LI></UL><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-9"><A href="#Minutes"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.4</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Minutes</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-10"><A href="#Action_Points_for_the_next_meeting"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.5</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Action Points for the next meeting</SPAN></A></LI></TD></TR></TBODY></TABLE><H2><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="23_July_2009_-_iGEM_Meeting"> 23 July 2009 - iGEM Meeting </SPAN></H2><UL><LI> Chair: Jess
</LI><LI> Students: Jess, Goksel, Jane, James, Mat, Arun, Hanny
</LI><LI> Minutes: Arun
</LI></UL><DL><DT> BELOW IS LAST WEEK'S MEETING DETAILS
</DT></DL><H3><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Agenda"> Agenda </SPAN></H3><UL><LI>Review previous meeting action points
</LI><LI>Review new action points
</LI><LI>Discuss lab schedule
</LI><LI>Go through each group's presentations
</LI></UL><H3><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Action_Points_during_09_July_09_Meeting"> Action Points during 09 July 09 Meeting </SPAN></H3><UL><LI>Heavy Metal Network model - ongoing (Goksel, Jess)
</LI><LI>Stochastic Inverter model - ongoing (Arun, Mathew, Hanny)
</LI><LI>Sporulation Tuning &amp; Population model - ongoing (James, Jane)
</LI><LI>Prioritise BioBricks - ongoing
</LI><LI>PL - ongoing
</LI><LI>Write up about Cadmium and the environment - ongoing (Jess, Mathew)
</LI><LI>Lab space - ongoing (Jane)
</LI><LI>Week break before the start of new school term - ongoing
</LI><LI>Thoughts and ideas from iGem UK get-together
</LI><LI>Write-up about social and ethics implications arised from synthetic biology and the project - Awaiting e-mail from Edinburgh university regarding thoughts and ideas generated during the activity
</LI></UL><LI>Side bar/hyper links on biological terms used in the project - ongoing
</LI><LI>Jen to get syn biology toolbox
</LI><LI>Jen or Neil to e-mail Megan regarding clarity on the requirement/rule no. 1 to achieve the Gold medal.
</LI><LI>Team to help (ongoing)
</LI><LI>Write up on the use of Cadmium in the lab (ongoing)
</LI><LI>Summary of achievements on frontpage with links to evidence (ongoing)
</LI><H3><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="New_Action_Points_from_Last_Meeting_.2809_July_09.29_and_Student_Meeting_.2813_July_09.29"> New Action Points from Last Meeting (09 July 09) and Student Meeting (13 July 09) </SPAN></H3><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Modelling"> Modelling </SPAN></H4><UL><LI>Need another repressor to replace the promoter for the Cad A system (Mathew, Hanny, Arun)
</LI><LI>Decide on a set of environmental issues first (ongoing)
</LI><LI>Device a method to differentiate Cd from the other metals
</LI></UL><LI>Integrate the sin I operon into the big picture (James, Jame)
</LI><LI>E-mail Jeff Erringon regarding sinI and sin R (Mathew sent e-mail on 13/07/09)
</LI><LI>Make appointment with Goksel to seek clarity on sinI, sinR model (James, Jane) - Pending
</LI><LI>Make appointment with Morgan to seek clarity on population model (James, Jane) - Done
</LI><LI>Ask Morgan for link to her modelling research
</LI><LI>Model big picture model (James, Jane) 
</LI><LI>Model of the invertable segments to find X and Y (Jess, Goksel)
</LI><LI>Need Hin degradation (LVA) (Jess, Goksel)
</LI><LI>E-mail Colin Harwood regarding GerM (Mathew sent e-mail on 13/07/09)
</LI><LI>Change X &amp; Y to X1, X2, and Y1, Y2 (Arun)
</LI><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Wiki"> Wiki </SPAN></H4><UL><LI>Review main wiki (ongoing)
</LI><LI>Upload diagram onto the main wiki (Arun)
</LI><LI>Update external wiki's intro (to be more scientific, might be due on 1st August) (Jess and team)
</LI><LI>Write up and justify a paragraphy as to why our project is concentrating on soil (Mathew and team)
</LI><LI>Remember to change <I>B.subtilis</I> to italic (ongoing)
</LI><LI>Upload internal wiki to external (ongoing)
</LI><LI>Update timetable (ongoing)
</LI><LI>Write up a small introduction about yourself on main wiki (ongoing)
</LI><LI>Upload Edinburgh get-together pictures (Jane)
</LI><LI>Idea - Greeting in different languages
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Misc."> Misc. </SPAN></H4><UL><LI>Remind Jen and Neil to settle payment (get in touch with CSGPN) (Jane sent e-mail on 15/07/09)
</LI><LI>Remind Jen and Neil to settle flights and hotels (Jane sent e-mail on 15/07/09)
</LI><LI>Jane to e-mail Jen and Neil, to request for a guest student card (Jane sent e-mail on 15/07/09)
</LI><LI>Remind Jen to e-mail scanned documents
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Notes"> Notes </SPAN></H4><UL><LI>The program &quot;Sequentia&quot; is actually spelt as &quot;Sequencher&quot;
</LI><LI>Mathew will be assisting with the PL
</LI><LI>No lab sessions on Mondays until further notice
</LI></UL><H3><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Minutes"> Minutes </SPAN></H3><UL><LI>Lab Rota
</LI><LI> We will be able to get 2 teams at once
</LI><LI> Chrissie will be cleaning up her bench for us
</LI></UL><LI>Need to put more photos on the external wikis, especially instructors' pictures
</LI><LI>Shuttle vector (<I>E.Coli</I> to <I>B.subtilis</I>): Neil couldn't find one of those, maybe dead end? Have asked Cambridge about it, they said that they submitted a vector last year but it's doesn't work well. Maybe could we improve it?
</LI><LI>Think about helping another team: look at Groningen's BioBricks, and think about swapping bricks.
</LI><LI>Revise the advisor list on the wiki
</LI><LI>Does Pr.Nigel Robinson want to be on the mailing list and an advicer?
</LI><LI>Try and learn how to use Sequencher and Clone Manager
</LI><LI>Marketing team ( Mat and Arun ) to get the money. We have raised 12,000pounds, need an extra 5,000 pounds. Neil gave a list of companies we can talk to.
</LI><UL><LI>Presentations
</LI><LI>Sporulation/Population Modelling team
</LI><LI>Stochastic switch team
</LI><LI>Metal intake team
</LI></UL><H3><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Action_Points_for_the_next_meeting"> Action Points for the next meeting </SPAN></H3><UL><LI> Ask about project description (Jess)
</LI><LI> Send BioBrick design to Neil (Arun)
</LI><LI> Ask Pr.Nigel Robinson if he wants to be an advisor (Mat)
</LI><LI> Think about the project title; BacMan,the Quest to Sequester?
</LI><LI> Need to put more pictures on the wiki (Mat)
</LI><LI> Collect pictures of the team from those who took pictures (Arun)
</LI><LI> Write personal descriptions on the wiki and ask the instructors and advisor to do so (Arun)
</LI><LI> Have a look at the shuttle vector that Cambridge submitted last year (Leave for later)
</LI><LI> Look at Groningen's BioBrick design (leave for later)
</LI><LI> Need to set up a meeting with Noel from Sunderland (Goksel)
</LI><LI> Put modelling stuff and presentations on the wiki (Mat)
</LI><LI> Need to calculate how much the stochastic BioBrick will cost (Jess)
</LI></UL></DIV></DIV></DIV><DIV id="rightcontent"><DIV class="rightcontentitem"><P class="header"><STRONG>News</STRONG></P><P class="header"><STRONG>Events</STRONG></P><UL><LI> 20 â 21 June 2009 - <A href="/Team:Newcastle/Instructor%27s_workshop" title="Team:Newcastle/Instructor's workshop">Europe workshop (London)</A></LI><LI> 23 â 24 June 2009 - <A href="/Team:Newcastle/Edinburgh_trip" title="Team:Newcastle/Edinburgh trip">UK iGEM meetup (Edinburgh)</A></LI><LI> 23 October <A href="/Team:Newcastle/Practice_Presentation" title="Team:Newcastle/Practice Presentation">Practice Presentation (Newcastle)</A></LI><LI> 23 October <A href="/Team:Newcastle/TShirts" title="Team:Newcastle/TShirts">T-shirts are ready</A></LI><LI> 27 October <A href="/Team:Newcastle/Practice_Presentation" title="Team:Newcastle/Practice Presentation">Practice Presentation (Sunderland)</A></LI><LI> 27 October <A href="/Team:Newcastle/Poster" title="Team:Newcastle/Poster" class="mw-redirect">Poster is ready</A></LI><LI> 30 October â 2 November 2009 - <A href="/Team:Newcastle/Jamboree" title="Team:Newcastle/Jamboree">Jamboree (Boston)</A></LI></UL><P class="header"><STRONG>Social Net</STRONG></P><UL><LI><A href="http://twitter.com/newcastleigem09">Newcastle iGEM Twitter</A></LI><LI><A href="http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/group.php?gid=131709337641" class="external text" rel="nofollow">Newcastle on Facebook</A></LI><LI><A href="http://www.youtube.com/user/newcastle2009igem" class="external text" rel="nofollow">Newcastle Youtube Channel</A></LI></UL></DIV></DIV><DIV class="printfooter">
Retrieved from &quot;<A href="http://2009.igem.org/Team:Newcastle/Meetings/23_July_2009">http://2009.igem.org/Team:Newcastle/Meetings/23_July_2009</A>&quot;</DIV></DIV></DIV><DIV id="footer-box"><DIV id="footer"><UL id="f-list"><LI id="t-recentchanges"><A href="/Special:RecentChanges" title="Recent changes">Recent changes</A></LI><LI id="t-whatlinkshere"><A href="/Special:WhatLinksHere/Team:Newcastle/Meetings/23_July_2009" title="List of all wiki pages that link here [j]" accesskey="j">What links here</A></LI><LI id="t-recentchangeslinked"><A href="/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Team:Newcastle/Meetings/23_July_2009" title="Recent changes in pages linked from this page [k]" accesskey="k">Related changes</A></LI><LI id="t-specialpages"><A href="/Special:SpecialPages" title="List of all special pages [q]" accesskey="q">Special pages</A></LI><LI><A href="/Special:Preferences">My preferences</A></LI></UL></DIV><DIV id="footer"><UL id="f-list"><LI id="t-print"><A href="/wiki/index.php?title=Team:Newcastle/Meetings/23_July_2009&amp;printable=yes" title="Printable version of this page [p]" accesskey="p">Printable version</A></LI><LI id="t-permalink"><A href="/wiki/index.php?title=Team:Newcastle/Meetings/23_July_2009&amp;oldid=33943" title="Permanent link to this revision of the page">Permanent link</A></LI><LI id="privacy"><A href="/2009.igem.org:Privacy_policy" title="2009.igem.org:Privacy policy">Privacy policy</A></LI><LI id="disclaimer"><A href="/2009.igem.org:General_disclaimer" title="2009.igem.org:General disclaimer">Disclaimers</A></LI></UL></DIV></DIV></DIV></BODY></HTML>