<HTML xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en" dir="ltr">
<style type="text/css">
A:before { content:' '; } 
A:after { content:' '; } 
SPAN:before { content:' '; } 
SPAN:after { content:' '; } 
</style>
<BODY class="mediawiki  ltr ns-0 ns-subject page-Team_Newcastle_Meetings_24_June_2010"><DIV id="globalWrapper"><DIV id="top-section"><DIV id="p-logo"><A href="/Main_Page" title="Main Page">&quot;
	    </A></DIV><DIV id="menubar" class="left-menu noprint"><UL><LI class="selected"><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Meetings/24_June_2010">Page               </A></LI><LI class="new"><A href="/wiki/index.php?title=Talk:Team:Newcastle/Meetings/24_June_2010&amp;action=edit&amp;redlink=1">Discussion               </A></LI><LI><A href="/wiki/index.php?title=Team:Newcastle/Meetings/24_June_2010&amp;action=edit">View source               </A></LI><LI><A href="/wiki/index.php?title=Team:Newcastle/Meetings/24_June_2010&amp;action=history">History               </A></LI><LI style="color:#808080;cursor:default">teams</LI></UL></DIV><DIV class="right-menu noprint" id="menubar"><UL><LI id="pt-login"><A href="/wiki/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&amp;returnto=Team:Newcastle/Meetings/24_June_2010" title="You are encouraged to log in; however, it is not mandatory [o]" accesskey="o">Log in</A></LI></UL></DIV><DIV id="search-controls" class="noprint"><FORM action="/Special:Search" id="searchform"> </FORM></DIV></DIV><DIV id="content"><H1 class="firstHeading">Team:Newcastle/Meetings/24 June 2010</H1><DIV id="bodyContent"><H3 id="siteSub" class="noprint">From 2010.igem.org</H3><DIV id="newcastle-page"><TABLE style="width:100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"><TBODY><TR><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle" title="Team:Newcastle">Home</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/the_team" title="Team:Newcastle/the team">Team</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/problem" title="Team:Newcastle/problem">Problem</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/solution" title="Team:Newcastle/solution">Solution</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/modelling" title="Team:Newcastle/modelling">Modelling</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/notebook" title="Team:Newcastle/notebook">Lab book</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/meetings" title="Team:Newcastle/meetings">Meetings</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/safety" title="Team:Newcastle/safety">Ethics</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Medals" title="Team:Newcastle/Medals">Judging</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/other" title="Team:Newcastle/other">Other</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Sponsors" title="Team:Newcastle/Sponsors">Sponsors</A></TD></TR></TBODY></TABLE><DIV style="padding:30px"><TABLE id="toc" class="toc"><TBODY><TR><TD><DIV id="toctitle"><H2>Contents</H2></DIV><UL><LI class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><A href="#Formal_Meeting_-_24th_June_2010"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Formal Meeting - 24th June 2010</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><A href="#Roll_call_and_Apologies"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.1</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Roll call and Apologies</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><A href="#Previous_meeting"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.2</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Previous meeting</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><A href="#Logo.2F_T-shirts"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.3</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Logo/ T-shirts</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><A href="#Funding"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.4</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Funding</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-6"><A href="#lacI.2FyneA_Brick"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.5</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">lacI/yneA Brick</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-7"><A href="#Lab_Training"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.6</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Lab Training</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-8"><A href="#New_Brick.2FModelling"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.7</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">New Brick/Modelling</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-9"><A href="#Next_week"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.8</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Next week</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-10"><A href="#Testing_on_concrete"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.9</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Testing on concrete</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-11"><A href="#Gibson_Cloning"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.10</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Gibson Cloning</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-12"><A href="#Jamboree"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.11</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Jamboree</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-13"><A href="#Other_Business"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.12</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Other Business</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-14"><A href="#Action_Points"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.13</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Action Points</SPAN></A></LI></UL></TD></TR></TBODY></TABLE><H2><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Formal_Meeting_-_24th_June_2010">Formal Meeting - 24th June 2010</SPAN></H2><UL><LI> Start Time: 3pm
</LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Agendas/24_June_2010" title="Team:Newcastle/Agendas/24 June 2010">Agenda</A></LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Roll_call_and_Apologies">Roll call and Apologies</SPAN></H4><UL><LI> Absent: Harsh, Younus, Steven
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Previous_meeting">Previous meeting</SPAN></H4><UL><LI> Summary of igem given to new advisors, Summary of two teams progress with Lab training and lacI/yneA Brick design.
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Logo.2F_T-shirts">Logo/ T-shirts</SPAN></H4><UL><LI> T-shirt design looked over, T-shirt co. logo needs to be added and Welcome Trust logo needs to be bigger. Meeting at 9am Monday morning to try to finalise design. 
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Funding">Funding</SPAN></H4><UL><LI> Letter to Andrew Young needs to be written asking for funds.
</LI><LI> Neil and Jen also need to apply for funding from Civil Engineering 
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="lacI.2FyneA_Brick"><I>lacI/yneA</I> Brick</SPAN></H4><UL><LI><I>yneA</I> sequence done and sent for synthesis.
</LI><LI> Model needs more parameters and also inclusion of ftsZ
</LI><LI> Cloning strategy needs more detail
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Lab_Training">Lab Training</SPAN></H4><UL><LI> Summary of Lab team's week is on the wiki
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="New_Brick.2FModelling">New Brick/Modelling</SPAN></H4><UL><LI> Trying to create one or more BioBricks to upregulate Urease in order to produce more extracellular Calcium Carbonate
</LI><LI> Two Bricks: 
</LI></UL><OL><LI><B>Upregulate rocF</B></LI><LI><B>Downregulate ahrC by antisense mRNA</B></LI></OL><UL><LI> A small problem is that 168 does not export Urease
</LI><LI>Examined SBML shorthand for Model, still needs more parameters
</LI><LI>No cloning strategy as of yet
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Next_week">Next week</SPAN></H4><UL><LI> We our on our own in terms of orgaisation, cannot use small meeting room as base, cannot be in CBCB or lab without Neil or Wendy
</LI><LI> Two options for next brick : 
</LI></UL><OL><LI>Quorum sensing
</LI><LI>Glue/Lysis
</LI></OL><UL><LI><B>Neil: Think about wow factor</B></LI><LI> Need to design primers for lacI PCR
</LI><LI> Insert into pSB1AT3 in front of RFP
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Testing_on_concrete">Testing on concrete</SPAN></H4><UL><LI> Would be nice to do some mechanical modelling/testing on concrete
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Gibson_Cloning">Gibson Cloning</SPAN></H4><UL><LI> Advisors/Wendy will sort out
</LI><LI> Steven needs to have a look at creating software to design primers for it
</LI><LI> Jannetta could turn this into a web service
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Jamboree">Jamboree</SPAN></H4><UL><LI> Will go on Thursday night as better for getting acclimatised
</LI><LI> Fly out on 4th, return on 8th (arrival may actually be on 9th)
</LI><LI> Neil and Jen will book flights and accommodation
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Other_Business">Other Business</SPAN></H4><UL><LI> Can submit parts to the registry even though we do not have actual DNA
</LI><LI> Thursday 1st July 3pm next meeting
</LI></UL><OL><LI> Chair:Da, Minutes:Alan, Computer: Steve 
</LI></OL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Action_Points">Action Points</SPAN></H4><UL><LI> Jannetta: Add T-shirt co. to logo, make Welcome trust bigger
</LI><LI> Write letter to Andrew Young
</LI><LI> Neil and Jen: Extract money from civ eng
</LI><LI> Neil and Jen: Book Fights and Accommodation
</LI></UL><CENTER><TABLE style="text-align:center"><TBODY><TR><TD>    </TD></TR><TR><TD>        </TD></TR></TBODY></TABLE></CENTER></DIV><DIV class="printfooter">
Retrieved from &quot;<A href="http://2010.igem.org/Team:Newcastle/Meetings/24_June_2010">http://2010.igem.org/Team:Newcastle/Meetings/24_June_2010</A>&quot;</DIV></DIV></DIV><DIV id="footer-box" class="noprint"><DIV id="footer"><UL id="f-list"><LI id="t-recentchanges"><A href="/Special:RecentChanges" title="Recent changes">Recent changes</A></LI><LI id="t-whatlinkshere"><A href="/Special:WhatLinksHere/Team:Newcastle/Meetings/24_June_2010" title="List of all wiki pages that link here [j]" accesskey="j">What links here</A></LI><LI id="t-recentchangeslinked"><A href="/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Team:Newcastle/Meetings/24_June_2010" title="Recent changes in pages linked from this page [k]" accesskey="k">Related changes</A></LI><LI id="t-specialpages"><A href="/Special:SpecialPages" title="List of all special pages [q]" accesskey="q">Special pages</A></LI><LI><A href="/Special:Preferences">My preferences</A></LI></UL></DIV><DIV id="footer"><UL id="f-list"><LI id="t-print"><A href="/wiki/index.php?title=Team:Newcastle/Meetings/24_June_2010&amp;printable=yes" title="Printable version of this page [p]" accesskey="p">Printable version</A></LI><LI id="t-permalink"><A href="/wiki/index.php?title=Team:Newcastle/Meetings/24_June_2010&amp;oldid=177088" title="Permanent link to this revision of the page">Permanent link</A></LI><LI id="privacy"><A href="/2010.igem.org:Privacy_policy" title="2010.igem.org:Privacy policy">Privacy policy</A></LI><LI id="disclaimer"><A href="/2010.igem.org:General_disclaimer" title="2010.igem.org:General disclaimer">Disclaimers</A></LI></UL></DIV></DIV></DIV></DIV></BODY></HTML>